Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today I’m
going to explain an American teen fantasy
comedy-drama film called “Pleasantville”,
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
At the beginning of the movie,
we see an advertisement on the TV
that boasts about an old black and white TV
show called Pleasantville. The organisers
have conducted a Pleasantville trivia contest
for a chance to win a thousand dollars.
Somewhere else, lives a pair of twins named
David and Jennifer. Despite being twins, the
two are vastly different from each other and have
contrasting interests. David likes to read books,
watch TV, and has only a few friends, while
Jennifer has no interest in her studies,
is outgoing, and spends most of
her time worrying about her looks.
Although the two go to the same school, they
are not particularly close to each other.
David is also a freak for the TV show
Pleasantville. Pleasantville is a black and white
sitcom from the 50s about an idealistic family of
the Parkers; George, his wife Betty and their two
children, Bud and Mary Sue. David spends most of
his night watching the sitcom and is an expert on
it; he can even recite every line from the whole
show. Unlike the Parker family, David’s family
is not so perfect. His parents are divorced, and
his relationship with his sister is non-existent.
David plans to watch the Pleasantville marathon
and join the trivia in hope of winning the
thousand dollars. However, the same night of the
trivia, Jennifer invites her crush and the most
popular guy in the school to come over for a movie
night. Their mother will not be home that day,
so it is the perfect opportunity for Jennifer.
The night comes, and Jennifer and David both want
to watch different things on TV. They fight over
the remote and accidentally break it. The TV
cannot be turned on now. Just then, the doorbell
rings, and Jennifer rushes to fetch her crush.
But to her disappointment, it is a random
person who claims to be a repairman. The twins
are doubtful because they hadn’t called anyone to
fix the remote that broke a few seconds ago. But
they let the man in any way. He randomly starts
asking David trivia questions about Pleasantville,
and David answers them all correctly. The man is
impressed and gives them a heavy-looking remote.
As the man leaves, the twins continue fighting
for the new remote and accidentally press a
button. Suddenly, the two are sucked into the TV.
They are now in Parker’s living room, dressed as
people from the 50s. The shocked siblings look
around and see everything in black and white.
Then, the same repairman appears on the television
and tells them that they are in Pleasantville.
David freaks out and asks the man to let them
out, but the man insists the Pleasantville
world is much better than the real world they
live in. It turns out that David and Jennifer
have replaced Bud and Mary Sue in the sitcom. The
twins have to live their life from now onwards.
Their mother on the show, Betty, forces them
to eat a lot, as she does with her children.
As they walk through the town of Pleasantville,
they see everyone is black and white and acts
differently from the people they are used to.
David, who knows how the people in the sitcom act,
has no problem adjusting to the new environment,
but Jennifer has no idea what is going on.
They see a group of firefighters saving a
kitten stuck on a tree. The two find out
that Pleasantville has no fire. As in the show,
the use of fire was never shown, so no one in
Pleasantville knows that fire even exists.
Right after, Mary Sue’s love interest in the
show named Skip Martin passes by. Jennifer sees
the handsome boy and is instantly drawn to him.
She has found a reason to enjoy
her stay at Pleasantville.
David and Jennifer even have to go to
the old fashioned school as Bud and Mary.
David recognises all the characters and helps her
sister by introducing them to her from afar. He
tells her to go along with the plot of the sitcom
and not disturb the flow. Jennifer, as Mary, takes
the classes in her school and finds out that the
people there think Pleasantville is the only city
in the world. The road that leads out of the town
is in a circle that leads back to the town. Hence,
the people are oblivious to the outside world.
Later, at recess, David sees that he is able
to score every time at basketball. The team is
perfect, similar to their character in the sitcom.
Skip approaches David to ask him if
he can take Jennifer out on a date.
David tells him that she isn’t ready to date
yet. But Mary Sue going on a date with Skip
was on the plot of the show, so David wants
Jennifer to go out with him at least once. He
warns her not to disrupt the original plot of the
show. Jennifer agrees and gets ready for the date.
Meanwhile, David goes to work at a diner where
his boss is a friendly man named Bill Johnson.
The diner is very popular in Pleasantville and
has a major role in the sitcom. Jennifer and
Skip arrive at the diner for their date. Skip is
very different from the guys Jennifer is used to
dating. She gets bored at the diner and tells
Skip to take her to a famous spot in the town
called the lover's lane. As the two set off,
David realises what his sister is trying to do.
He tries to stop them but isn’t successful.
The lover’s lane is a place where couples come to
hold hands and watch the beautiful sky.
However, Jennifer has different plans.
She starts to make out with Skip, who
is completely oblivious to the idea.
At home, Bill visits David after work. As
the two talk, the mother, Betty comes into
the living room and locks eyes with Bill.
The two are attracted to each other.
Skip then drops Jennifer home and sees the colour
of a red rose nearby. He finds it weird because he
has always only seen it in black and white.
The following day at school, David notices Skip
talking about his date with Jennifer
to everyone from his basketball team.
All of them are shocked at the revelation. The
otherwise perfect basketball team cannot score
that day. Jennifer has changed the nature of the
characters. David asks her to keep everything in
check, but she insists the people of Pleasantville
need a change. Because of Jennifer’s influence,
people in the town start seeing colours, Bill
doesn’t want to own a diner anymore, and more
and more people start visiting the lover’s
lane. The town’s people, including the mayor,
grow suspicious of the sudden appearance of
colour in the town and are not happy about it.
One day, Betty asks Jennifer what goes on in the
lover’s lane and gets to know about the concept of
making love. At night, she touches herself while
bathing and starts seeing colours all around. But
because of such changes, a tree outside the Parker
home starts to burn in flames. People, including
firefighters, do not know what to do because they
are new to the concept of fire. David instructs
firefighters to put off the fire step by step and
manages to stop it from getting worse. He is later
rewarded by the Mayor for his bravery.
David’s friend from school named Margaret
gives him cookies as a present to express she
likes him. David has never had a girl like him,
so he is over the moon. Other teens ask David
how he knew about fire. David introduces them
to the concept of reading books and getting such
knowledge from literature. He tells them the story
of a famous novel, the adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. The book, which usually is blank,
starts to fill with words as he tells the story.
The youngsters start visiting the library often to
get the knowledge that David and Jennifer have.
The fathers of the town, including the mayor,
are not happy about the change and decide to do
something about it. The Mayor visits the father,
George and includes him in the founding fathers’
council. He wants to work with him to implement
strict laws against coloured people. George
happily agrees and calls Betty to meet the mayor.
However, Betty hides in the kitchen, seeing
that she is turning colourful as well.
David finds her crying and helps her by
applying black and white makeup on her.
One day, David brings books of old paintings
and art to the diner and shows them to Bill.
Bill is fascinated and discovers
that he is passionate about painting.
David also asks Margaret out and is happy when
she agrees. This is the first time someone
as attractive as Margaret has liked him.
When David returns home, he sees the repairman
who sent them to Pleasantville on TV trying to
communicate with him. The man claims that David
and Jennifer have changed the plot of the sitcom
completely. He wants David to return to his own
world. However, David has grown used to his life
in Pleasantville. For the first time in his life,
he feels like he belongs somewhere. So, he turns
the TV off, refusing to go back. He then picks
Margaret in his car and takes her to lover’s
lane, which has completely turned colourful,
thanks to the bulk of lovers who come there.
On the other hand, Betty is walking around the
town when she notices Bill’s paintings
displayed in front of the diner.
The different colours intrigue her, so she
goes inside to meet him. As the two talk,
Bill sees that Betty has turned completely
coloured and tells her she looks beautiful.
Betty melts at the comment, but both of them know
they cannot take their conversation further.
Meanwhile, Jennifer is turning into the complete
opposite of herself from the real world.
She values her studies and doesn’t spend time
thinking about her looks. She even declines
when Skip invites her to the lover’s lane. At
night, it starts to rain heavily. The people
of Pleasantville have never seen rain and start
panicking. But eventually, they get used to it
and enjoy the rain. When George returns home
from work, he sees that Betty is no longer
there to serve him. He is furious and organises
an emergency meeting with the founding fathers.
All of them are mad about their wives and
children not obeying them like they used to.
The next day, Bill and Betty wake up in his
diner together. When Betty returns home,
George tries to make her come to the town
meeting, but Betty refuses. She says no
to her husband for the first time in her life
and asks him to learn to cook dinner himself.
George is shocked to witness his wife act like
that. The black and white people of the town are
getting more intolerant of the coloured ones. The
founding fathers ban chromatic people altogether.
People start to riot in the streets. Bill has
drawn a naked painting of Betty in the front
of his diner. The riots destroy the painting and
the diner too. The founding fathers also ban the
reading of books, listening to loud music, and
using colourful paint. Betty, along with David,
Jennifer, and other chromatic people, help
Bill clean up the mess caused by the riot.
David stands up as the leader of the coloured
people and promises to grant equal freedom to
them. He and Bill paint a meaningful painting
on a wall as a silent protest. But they two
are arrested because of the deed.
At the hearing, David and Bill tell the
townspeople about how everyone deserves freedom
and equality. Their message touches everyone’s
heart, and suddenly, everyone in the court starts
to turn colourful. David shows the Mayor a mirror
to show him that he has turned colourful as well.
The entire town of Pleasantville has colour now.
Eventually, they start to progress from their
orthodox thoughts and look at the new way
of living life. The circular road that led to
Pleasantville now connects it with other towns,
connecting the people with the rest of
the world. After David’s work is done,
he plans to return to his own world, but Jennifer
has formed a strong connection with the place,
so she decides to stay. David uses the remote
that had brought them there to go back home.
When he finally reaches home, he finds his mother
crying about her ruined life and her relationship
with his father. Now that David has been through
so much in Pleasantville, he tells his mother
that life isn’t perfect. A clip of Pleasantville
shows us that the people there are much happier in
colour than they were in black and white. George
and Betty are sitting on a park bench. He asks her
what might happen next, and Betty replies that
she doesn’t know. As the camera pans towards
George, we see he has changed into Bill.
The movie gives us a beautiful message that life
without ups and downs is stable but boring. Unlike
the black and white Pleasantville, our life is
colourful and has a lot of difficulties but that
is what makes it meaningful and memorable.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a like
to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.